README.md, before:

# Faber CLI

> ⚠ This is a work in progress. Before the release of version `1.0.0`, please expect things to change at any time.

Faber is a CLI that helps you create/scaffold new projects using custom boilerplates.

You can **prepare your own boilerplates** to make them configurable for creating new projects with Faber, and pass custom parameters, data or actions to execute in the scaffolding of your new project.

## Summary

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Configuring faberconfig](#configuring-faberconfig)
- [Passing Data](#passing-data)
  - [Minified/Encoded JSON](#minifiedencoded-json)
  - [Reserved Properties](#reserved-properties)
- [Actions](#actions)
  - [Replace](#replace)
  - [Move (or Rename)](#move-or-rename)
  - [Delete](#delete)
  - [Conditional](#conditional)
  - [Run](#run)
- [Commands (CLI)](#commands-cli)
  - [Execute](#faber-execute)
  - [Create](#faber-create)
  - [List](#faber-ls)
  - [Add](#faber-add)
  - [Remove](#faber-rm)

## Getting Started

### Requirements

To use the Faber CLI, you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on your machine.

Your project **doesn't need** to use Node.js for you to use Faber with it. You can use it on boilerplates with any kind of framework or stack.

For being a JS library, Faber configurations are written with **JavaScript**.

### Installation

Install the CLI globally on your machine with:

```shell
npm i -g faber-cli
```

### Usage

Here is a quick overview of how to use Faber.js on your projects:

If you want to **prepare a boilerplate** for using Faber:

1. Create a [faberconfig](#configuring-faberconfig) file at the root of your boilerplate repository;
2. Write the [actions](#actions) to be executed on the boilerplate when creating a new project with it;
3. Prepare the [data](#passing-data) you want to use in your actions;
4. Test your actions with the [execute](#faber-execute) CLI command.

If you want to **use an existing boilerplate** to create a new project:

1. Prepare the [data](#passing-data) you want to use for your project as a minified JSON;
2. Choose a repository of a boilerplate to use as a template;
3. Use the [create](`faber-create`) CLI command to bootstrap a new project.

### Configuring `faberconfig`

To use Faber CLI in a boilerplate, you need to create a `faberconfig.js` file at the root of your boilerplate project.

Usually, this file uses the `.js` extension, but depending on your preferences and your project settings (`package.json`, if existing on the project's root) you might want to use a different extension.

To use _CommonJS_, the file must be either:

- `.js` with `type: "commonjs"` in your `package.json`.
- `.cjs` with any `type` in your `package.json`.
- `.js` without having a `package.json` in the root.

To use _ESM_, the file must be either:

- `.js` with `type: "module"` in your `package.json`.
- `.mjs` with any `type` in your `package.json`.

See below a basic example using _CommonJS_ and _ESM_.

#### CommonJS

```js
module.exports = function (faber) {
  faber.setActions((data) => {
    return [
      // Add your actions here
      // ...
    ];
  });
};
```

#### ESM

```js
export default (faber) => {
  faber.setActions((data) => {
    return [
      // Add your actions here
      // ...
    ];
  });
};
```

## Passing Data

During the `create` and `execute` tasks from the CLI, Faber asks for minified (optionally encoded) JSON data. This data is passed to the `setActions()` function, allowing you to use it in the actions.

Here is an example of JSON data:

```json
{
  "name": "My Project",
  "client": "The Client",
  "isMultilanguage": false
}
```

### Minified/Encoded JSON

There are a few ways to pass the JSON data to the CLI. However, the most recommended way is as a **minified JSON** encoded to **Base64** format.

This guarantees that the JSON data won't break when passing to the command, especially when passed through the `--data` argument.

To encode your JSON, follow these steps:

1. **Minify** the JSON content – suggested online tool: [jsonformatter.org](https://jsonformatter.org/json-minify)
2. **Encode** the minified JSON to Base64 – suggested online tool: [base64encode.net](https://www.base64encode.net/)

Here is an example of the JSON mentioned above:

```
eyJuYW1lIjoiTXkgUHJvamVjdCIsImNsaWVudCI6IlRoZSBDbGllbnQiLCJpc011bHRpbGFuZ3VhZ2UiOmZhbHNlfQ==
```

### Reserved Properties

When using the `create` task, the name of the project passed as an argument for the command (i.e. `faber create my-project`) is added to the data object as the `_dirName` parameter. Similarly, when using the `execute` task, it gets the name of the folder where you are running the command.

```js
{
  _dirName: 'my-project';
}
```

## Actions

Actions are defined on the `faberconfig` file of the boilerplate using the `faber.setActions()` function.

You can use the **project's data** from the provided JSON (requested at `faber create` or `faber execute` commands) on any action.

See below the available actions that you can use:

### Replace

Replaces text or patterns on files or glob patterns.

| Property | Type                              | Required | Description                                                                                                  |
| -------- | --------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`   | _String_                          | Yes      | Should be `'replace'` for this action.                                                                       |
| `files`  | _String,[String]_                 | Yes      | Path to the files where the replace should happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern.    |
| `ignore` | _String,[String]_                 | No       | Path to the files where the replace shouldn't happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern. |
| `from`   | _String,[String],RegExp,[RegExp]_ | Yes      | Text(s) or pattern(s) to look for in the `files`.                                                            |
| `to`     | _String,[String],RegExp,[RegExp]_ | Yes      | The replacement text(s). If array is provided, should match the same length as the `from` array.             |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Replace first occurrence of a string in single file.
    {
      type: 'replace',
      files: 'README.md',
      from: 'PROJECT_NAME',
      to: data.projectName,
    },
    // Replace all occurrences of multiple strings
    // in multiple files, using glob patterns,
    // and defining paths not to change.
    {
      type: 'replace',
      files: ['README.md', 'package.json', 'src/*'],
      ignore: ['src/node_modules', '.git'],
      from: [/AUTHOR_NAME/g, /AUTHOR_URI/g],
      to: [data.authorName, data.authorUri],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- By default, the `.replace()` function on JavaScript replaces only the **first occurrence** of a searched string. To replace all occurrences you should use a regex pattern with the global flag (like `/something/g`).
- Consider using **regex boundaries** for more precise replacements, like `/\bNAME\b/g`. This prevents matching strings like `AUTHOR_NAME` when looking for just `NAME`.
- This action uses the [replace-in-file](https://www.npmjs.com/package/replace-in-file) package for the replacements. For more details about the `from`, `to` and `ignore` parameters, please visit its documentation.

### Move (or Rename)

Can be used to move or rename files and folders.

| Property | Type              | Required | Description                                                    |
| -------- | ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'move'` for this action.                            |
| `from`   | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Path(s) to the source files or folders to move.                |
| `to`     | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Destination path(s) to the files or folders to move or rename. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Move a single file to another directory
    {
      type: 'move',
      from: 'file.txt',
      to: 'folder/file.txt',
    },
    // Rename a folder and move and rename a file
    {
      type: 'move',
      from: ['folder', 'file.txt'],
      to: [data.newFolderName, `dir/${data.newFileName}`],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- When moving a file to another directory, if the destination (`to`) directory doesn't exist yet, it is created automatically.
- If a file/folder with the destination (`to`) name already exists, the existing one will be **overriden**.
- If the source (`from`) file/folder doesn't exist, an **error** is thrown.
- This action uses the [move-file](https://www.npmjs.com/package/move-file) package for renaming files. Please visit its documentation if needed.

### Delete

Deletes files or entire folders by defined paths or glob patterns.

| Property | Type              | Required | Description                                                             |
| -------- | ----------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'delete'` for this action.                                   |
| `paths`  | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Paths to the files or folders to delete. Also supporting glob patterns. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Delete a single file
    {
      type: 'delete',
      files: 'file.txt',
    },
    // Delete files and folders using glob pattern and variable
    {
      type: 'delete',
      files: ['**/*.txt', data.folderToDelete],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- If the file/folder doesn't exist, it's just ignored.
- This action uses the [del](https://www.npmjs.com/package/del) package for deleting files/folders. Please visit its documentation if needed.

### Conditional

Update files' content based on conditional rules. Useful to keep/remove text according to conditions with the provided data.

| Property     | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`       | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'conditional'` for this action.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `files`      | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Path to the files where the conditional updates should happen. It can be an array of paths.                                                                                                      |
| `ignore`     | _String,[String]_ | No       | Path to the files where the replace shouldn't happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern.                                                                                     |
| `identifier` | _String_          | Yes      | A token to identify the content to be kept/removed.                                                                                                                                              |
| `condition`  | _Boolean_         | Yes      | The condition to keep/remove the content. When the condition is `true`, the block is kept. However, when the block uses a negative token (`!`), the block is kept when the condition is `false`. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Keep/Remove content on single file
    {
      type: 'conditional',
      files: 'file.txt',
      identifier: 'is-multilanguage',
      condition: data.isMultiLanguage,
    },
  ];
});
```

On the file content, you can wrap the block of content to keep/remove with **Faber conditional comments**.

Here are some examples:

```markdown
This is a file with instruction of the project.

<!-- @faber-if: is-multilanguage -->

This line is only added if the condition is true.

<!-- @faber-endif: is-multilanguage -->

This is /_ @faber-if: !is-multisite _/not /_ @faber-endif: !is-multisite _/a multi language project.
```

In the above example, the line between the `@faber-if` and `@faber-endif` HTML comments is kept when the condition to the `is-multilanguage` identifier is `true`.

In the last line, however, it keeps the `“not”` word when the condition is `false`, using another commenting style (but could be the same style).

#### Considerations

- Currently, the only supported commenting styles are block comments like `<!-- -->` and `/* */`:
- The comments should start with `@faber-if:` (for the beginning) and `@faber-endif:` (for the end).
- The identifier is **required** for both `@faber-if` and `@faber-endif` for the action to work correctly.

### Run

Run shell commands.

| Property   | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                  |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`     | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'run'` for this action.                                                           |
| `commands` | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Command(s) to run sequentially.                                                              |
| `silent`   | _Boolean_         | No       | If `false`, logs the command(s) output on the console. Default is `true` (omits the output). |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Runs a single command
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: 'echo "Hello World!"',
    },
    // Runs multiple commands
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: ['npm i', 'npm run start'],
    },
    // Same as above, but using command separators
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: 'npm i && npm run start', // or 'npm i; npm run start'
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- Using **command separators** (`&&` or `;`) has the same behavior as using an array with multiple commands. It's just a matter of preference.
- This action uses the `exec()` function from the [shelljs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/shelljs) library for executing the commands.

## Commands (CLI)

The CLI has commands to **create** new projects, **test** boilerplates, and also **manage** available repository aliases on your local machine.

In a nutshell, you will use:

- `faber create` – To create new projects from a pre-configured boilerplate. This command **clones the repo** and then executes the `faber execute` command inside it.
- `faber execute` – To execute the configured actions on a boilerplate. When working on the boilerplate actions, you can use this command to test the actions you are developing.
- `faber ls|add|rm` – To manage aliases to your boilerplates for ease of usage when using the `faber create` command.

### `faber create`

Creates a new project with a pre-configured boilerplate.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber create my-project --branch=main --use-existing
```

#### Arguments

`faber create <name>`

- `<name>` – The name for the project root folder.

#### Flags (optional)

- `--use-existing` (bool) – If the folder already exists, skip the prompt and continue with the existing folder, without cloning the repository.
- `--override-existing` (bool) – If the folder already exists, skip the prompt and deletes the existing folder before cloning the repository.
- `--branch` (string) – Name of the git branch to retrieve from the repository. If not defined, uses the default branch (usually named `main` or `master`).
- `--data` (string) – Encoded JSON data to be passed to the script.
- `--no-preview` (bool) – Do not show the JSON data preview.
- `--deep-preview` (bool) – Show the JSON data preview with all the properties and array items expanded.
- `--no-results` (bool) – Do not show the actions' results.

#### What does it do?

1. Clones the boilerplate repository into a new folder with the provided name.
2. Run the steps from the `faber execute` command.
3. Deletes the `.git` folder from the repository (when not using the `--keep-git` flag);

> **Notice**: You need to have permission to read from the boilerplate repository. When using private repositories, you need to authenticate via SSH or HTTPS as you normally would when cloning.

### `faber execute`

Executes the configured actions on the current directory. Useful for development.

> A `faberconfig` file should be present on the directory.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber execute --dry --data --no-preview
```

#### Flags (optional)

- `--data` (string) – Encoded JSON data to be passed to the script.
- `--no-preview` (bool) – Do not show the JSON data preview.
- `--deep-preview` (bool) – Show the JSON data preview with all the properties and array items expanded.
- `--no-results` (bool) – Do not show the actions' results.

#### What does it do?

1. Read the `faberconfig` file from the directory;
2. Ask for the **encoded JSON data** to pass to the boilerplate (when not provided with the `--data` flag);
3. Display a **preview of the data** (when not using the `--no-preview` flag);
4. Execute the **actions** from `faberconfig` (when not using the `--dry` flag);

### `faber ls`

List your registered boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber ls
```

### `faber add`

Adds a boilerplate to your list of available boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber add my-boilerplate git@github.com:example.git 'My Boilerplate'
```

#### Arguments

`faber add <alias> <repository> [name]`

- `<alias>` (_mandatory_) – Used to reference this boilerplate on other commands. It should consist only of letters, numbers, dashes and underscores.
- `<repository>` (_mandatory_) – URL to **clone** the repository. It usually ends with `.git`.
- `[name]` (_optional_) – A name for this boilerplate to display when using the `faber create` command.

### `faber rm`

Removes a boilerplate from your list of available boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber rm my-boilerplate
```

#### Arguments

`faber rm <alias>`

- `<alias>` (_mandatory_) – The reference to the boilerplate to remove from your list.

## Mentions

This documentation was inspired by the [Plop](https://plopjs.com/) documentation.

_Plop_ is an amazing micro-framework with a similar goal as _Faber_, however, while _Plop_ is great for generating code inside your project using [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) as template engine, _Faber_ is fully focused on starting new projects, with no defined template engine, so you might be able to run the boilerplate project on its own for testing its features with your own.

_P.S. You can use both together in your projects to make your life easier._ 😉

Commit message:

Update the `run` and `conditional` actions

README.md, after:

# Faber CLI

> ⚠ This is a work in progress. Before the release of version `1.0.0`, please expect things to change at any time.

Faber is a CLI that helps you create/scaffold new projects using custom boilerplates.

You can **prepare your own boilerplates** to make them configurable for creating new projects with Faber, and pass custom parameters, data or actions to execute in the scaffolding of your new project.

## Summary

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Configuring faberconfig](#configuring-faberconfig)
- [Passing Data](#passing-data)
  - [Minified/Encoded JSON](#minifiedencoded-json)
  - [Reserved Properties](#reserved-properties)
- [Actions](#actions)
  - [Replace](#replace)
  - [Move (or Rename)](#move-or-rename)
  - [Delete](#delete)
  - [Conditional](#conditional)
  - [Run](#run)
- [Commands (CLI)](#commands-cli)
  - [Execute](#faber-execute)
  - [Create](#faber-create)
  - [List](#faber-ls)
  - [Add](#faber-add)
  - [Remove](#faber-rm)

## Getting Started

### Requirements

To use the Faber CLI, you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) on your machine.

Your project **doesn't need** to use Node.js for you to use Faber with it. You can use it on boilerplates with any kind of framework or stack. Once the project is created, Faber's work is done.

However, for being a JS library, Faber configurations are currently written with **JavaScript**.

### Installation

Install the CLI globally on your machine with:

```shell
npm install -g faber-cli
```

### Usage

Here is a quick overview of how to use Faber.js on your projects:

If you want to **prepare a boilerplate** for using Faber:

1. Create a [faberconfig](#configuring-faberconfig) file at the root of your boilerplate repository;
2. Write the [actions](#actions) to be executed on the boilerplate when creating a new project with it;
3. Prepare the [data](#passing-data) you want to use in your actions;
4. Test your actions with the [execute](#faber-execute) CLI command.

If you want to **use an existing boilerplate** to create a new project:

1. Prepare the [data](#passing-data) you want to use for your project as a minified JSON;
2. Choose a repository of a boilerplate to use as a template;
3. Use the [create](`faber-create`) CLI command to bootstrap a new project.

### Configuring `faberconfig`

To use Faber CLI in a boilerplate, you need to create a `faberconfig.js` file at the root of your boilerplate project.

Usually, this file uses the `.js` extension, but depending on your preferences and your project settings (`package.json`, if existing on the project's root) you might want to use a different extension.

To use _CommonJS_, the file must be either:

- `.js` with `type: "commonjs"` in your `package.json`.
- `.cjs` with any `type` in your `package.json`.
- `.js` without having a `package.json` in the root.

To use _ESM_, the file must be either:

- `.js` with `type: "module"` in your `package.json`.
- `.mjs` with any `type` in your `package.json`.

See below a basic example using _CommonJS_ and _ESM_.

#### CommonJS

```js
module.exports = function (faber) {
  faber.setActions((data) => {
    return [
      // Add your actions here
      // ...
    ];
  });
};
```

#### ESM

```js
export default (faber) => {
  faber.setActions((data) => {
    return [
      // Add your actions here
      // ...
    ];
  });
};
```

## Passing Data

During the `create` and `execute` tasks from the CLI, Faber asks for minified (optionally encoded) JSON data. This data is passed to the `setActions()` function, allowing you to use it in the actions.

Here is an example of JSON data:

```json
{
  "name": "My Project",
  "client": "The Client",
  "isMultilanguage": false
}
```

### Minified/Encoded JSON

There are a few ways to pass the JSON data to the CLI. However, the most recommended way is as a **minified JSON** encoded to **Base64** format.

This guarantees that the JSON data won't break when passing to the command, especially when passed through the `--data` argument.

To encode your JSON, follow these steps:

1. **Minify** the JSON content – suggested online tool: [jsonformatter.org](https://jsonformatter.org/json-minify)
2. **Encode** the minified JSON to Base64 – suggested online tool: [base64encode.net](https://www.base64encode.net/)

Here is an example of the JSON mentioned above:

```
eyJuYW1lIjoiTXkgUHJvamVjdCIsImNsaWVudCI6IlRoZSBDbGllbnQiLCJpc011bHRpbGFuZ3VhZ2UiOmZhbHNlfQ==
```

### Reserved Properties

When using the `create` task, the name of the project passed as an argument for the command (i.e. `faber create my-project`) is added to the data object as the `_dirName` parameter. Similarly, when using the `execute` task, it gets the name of the folder where you are running the command.

```js
{
  _dirName: 'my-project';
}
```

## Actions

Actions are defined on the `faberconfig` file of the boilerplate using the `faber.setActions()` function.

You can use the **project's data** from the provided JSON (requested at `faber create` or `faber execute` commands) on any action.

See below the available actions that you can use:

### Replace

Replaces text or patterns on files or glob patterns.

| Property | Type                              | Required | Description                                                                                                  |
| -------- | --------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`   | _String_                          | Yes      | Should be `'replace'` for this action.                                                                       |
| `files`  | _String,[String]_                 | Yes      | Path to the files where the replace should happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern.    |
| `ignore` | _String,[String]_                 | No       | Path to the files where the replace shouldn't happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern. |
| `from`   | _String,[String],RegExp,[RegExp]_ | Yes      | Text(s) or pattern(s) to look for in the `files`.                                                            |
| `to`     | _String,[String],RegExp,[RegExp]_ | Yes      | The replacement text(s). If array is provided, should match the same length as the `from` array.             |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Replace first occurrence of a string in single file.
    {
      type: 'replace',
      files: 'README.md',
      from: 'PROJECT_NAME',
      to: data.projectName,
    },
    // Replace all occurrences of multiple strings
    // in multiple files, using glob patterns,
    // and defining paths not to change.
    {
      type: 'replace',
      files: ['README.md', 'package.json', 'src/*'],
      ignore: ['src/node_modules', '.git'],
      from: [/AUTHOR_NAME/g, /AUTHOR_URI/g],
      to: [data.authorName, data.authorUri],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- By default, the `.replace()` function on JavaScript replaces only the **first occurrence** of a searched string. To replace all occurrences you should use a regex pattern with the global flag (like `/something/g`).
- Consider using **regex boundaries** for more precise replacements, like `/\bNAME\b/g`. This prevents matching strings like `AUTHOR_NAME` when looking for just `NAME`.
- This action uses the [replace-in-file](https://www.npmjs.com/package/replace-in-file) package for the replacements. For more details about the `from`, `to` and `ignore` parameters, please visit its documentation.

### Move (or Rename)

Can be used to move or rename files and folders.

| Property | Type              | Required | Description                                                    |
| -------- | ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'move'` for this action.                            |
| `from`   | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Path(s) to the source files or folders to move.                |
| `to`     | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Destination path(s) to the files or folders to move or rename. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Move a single file to another directory
    {
      type: 'move',
      from: 'file.txt',
      to: 'folder/file.txt',
    },
    // Rename a folder and move and rename a file
    {
      type: 'move',
      from: ['folder', 'file.txt'],
      to: [data.newFolderName, `dir/${data.newFileName}`],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- When moving a file to another directory, if the destination (`to`) directory doesn't exist yet, it is created automatically.
- If a file/folder with the destination (`to`) name already exists, the existing one will be **overriden**.
- If the source (`from`) file/folder doesn't exist, an **error** is thrown.
- This action uses the [move-file](https://www.npmjs.com/package/move-file) package for renaming files. Please visit its documentation if needed.

### Delete

Deletes files or entire folders by defined paths or glob patterns.

| Property | Type              | Required | Description                                                             |
| -------- | ----------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'delete'` for this action.                                   |
| `paths`  | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Paths to the files or folders to delete. Also supporting glob patterns. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Delete a single file
    {
      type: 'delete',
      files: 'file.txt',
    },
    // Delete files and folders using glob pattern and variable
    {
      type: 'delete',
      files: ['**/*.txt', data.folderToDelete],
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- If the file/folder doesn't exist, it's just ignored.
- This action uses the [del](https://www.npmjs.com/package/del) package for deleting files/folders. Please visit its documentation if needed.

### Conditional

Update files' content based on conditional rules. Useful to keep/remove text according to conditions with the provided data.

| Property     | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`       | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'conditional'` for this action.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `files`      | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Path to the files where the conditional updates should happen. It can be an array of paths.                                                                                                      |
| `ignore`     | _String,[String]_ | No       | Path to the files where the replace shouldn't happen. It can be an array of paths, and can use glob pattern.                                                                                     |
| `identifier` | _String_          | Yes      | A token to identify the content to be kept/removed.                                                                                                                                              |
| `condition`  | _Boolean_         | Yes      | The condition to keep/remove the content. When the condition is `true`, the block is kept. However, when the block uses a negative token (`!`), the block is kept when the condition is `false`. |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Keep/Remove content on single file
    {
      type: 'conditional',
      files: 'file.txt',
      identifier: 'is-multilanguage',
      condition: data.isMultiLanguage,
    },
  ];
});
```

On the file content, you can wrap the block of content to keep/remove with **Faber conditional comments**.

Here are some examples:

```markdown
This is a file with instruction of the project.

<!-- @faber-if: is-multilanguage -->

This line is only added if the condition is true.

<!-- @faber-endif: is-multilanguage -->

This is /_ @faber-if: !is-multisite _/not /_ @faber-endif: !is-multisite _/a multi language project.
```

In the above example, the line between the `@faber-if` and `@faber-endif` HTML comments is kept when the condition to the `is-multilanguage` identifier is `true`.

In the last line, however, it keeps the `“not”` word when the condition is `false`, using another commenting style (but could be the same style).

#### Considerations

- Currently, the only supported commenting styles are block comments like `<!-- -->` and `/* */`:
- The comments should start with `@faber-if:` (for the beginning) and `@faber-endif:` (for the end).
- The identifier is **required** for both `@faber-if` and `@faber-endif` for the action to work correctly.

### Run

Run shell commands.

| Property   | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                  |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`     | _String_          | Yes      | Should be `'run'` for this action.                                                           |
| `commands` | _String,[String]_ | Yes      | Command(s) to run sequentially.                                                              |
| `silent`   | _Boolean_         | No       | If `false`, logs the command(s) output on the console. Default is `true` (omits the output). |

#### Usage examples

```js
faber.setActions((data) => {
  return [
    // Runs a single command
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: 'echo "Hello World!"',
    },
    // Runs multiple commands
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: ['npm i', 'npm run start'],
    },
    // Same as above, but using command separators
    {
      type: 'run',
      command: 'npm i && npm run start', // or 'npm i; npm run start'
    },
  ];
});
```

#### Considerations

- Using **command separators** (`&&` or `;`) has the same behavior as using an array with multiple commands. It's just a matter of preference.
- When changing directories (i.e. `cd path/to/folder`) the next actions will run at the new current directory;
- This action uses the [shelljs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/shelljs) library for executing the commands, using the `exec()` function for running the commands, and the `cd()` function for `cd` commands (to change directory).

## Commands (CLI)

The CLI has commands to **create** new projects, **test** boilerplates, and also **manage** available repository aliases on your local machine.

In a nutshell, you will use:

- `faber create` – To create new projects from a pre-configured boilerplate. This command **clones the repo** and then executes the `faber execute` command inside it.
- `faber execute` – To execute the configured actions on a boilerplate. When working on the boilerplate actions, you can use this command to test the actions you are developing.
- `faber ls|add|rm` – To manage aliases to your boilerplates for ease of usage when using the `faber create` command.

### `faber create`

Creates a new project with a pre-configured boilerplate.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber create my-project --branch=main --use-existing
```

#### Arguments

`faber create <name>`

- `<name>` – The name for the project root folder.

#### Flags (optional)

- `--use-existing` (bool) – If the folder already exists, skip the prompt and continue with the existing folder, without cloning the repository.
- `--override-existing` (bool) – If the folder already exists, skip the prompt and deletes the existing folder before cloning the repository.
- `--branch` (string) – Name of the git branch to retrieve from the repository. If not defined, uses the default branch (usually named `main` or `master`).
- `--data` (string) – Encoded JSON data to be passed to the script.
- `--no-preview` (bool) – Do not show the JSON data preview.
- `--deep-preview` (bool) – Show the JSON data preview with all the properties and array items expanded.
- `--no-results` (bool) – Do not show the actions' results.

#### What does it do?

1. Clones the boilerplate repository into a new folder with the provided name.
2. Run the steps from the `faber execute` command.
3. Deletes the `.git` folder from the repository (when not using the `--keep-git` flag);

> **Notice**: You need to have permission to read from the boilerplate repository. When using private repositories, you need to authenticate via SSH or HTTPS as you normally would when cloning.

### `faber execute`

Executes the configured actions on the current directory. Useful for development.

> A `faberconfig` file should be present on the directory.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber execute --dry --data --no-preview
```

#### Flags (optional)

- `--data` (string) – Encoded JSON data to be passed to the script.
- `--no-preview` (bool) – Do not show the JSON data preview.
- `--deep-preview` (bool) – Show the JSON data preview with all the properties and array items expanded.
- `--no-results` (bool) – Do not show the actions' results.

#### What does it do?

1. Read the `faberconfig` file from the directory;
2. Ask for the **encoded JSON data** to pass to the boilerplate (when not provided with the `--data` flag);
3. Display a **preview of the data** (when not using the `--no-preview` flag);
4. Execute the **actions** from `faberconfig` (when not using the `--dry` flag);

### `faber ls`

List your registered boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber ls
```

### `faber add`

Adds a boilerplate to your list of available boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber add my-boilerplate git@github.com:example.git 'My Boilerplate'
```

#### Arguments

`faber add <alias> <repository> [name]`

- `<alias>` (_mandatory_) – Used to reference this boilerplate on other commands. It should consist only of letters, numbers, dashes and underscores.
- `<repository>` (_mandatory_) – URL to **clone** the repository. It usually ends with `.git`.
- `[name]` (_optional_) – A name for this boilerplate to display when using the `faber create` command.

### `faber rm`

Removes a boilerplate from your list of available boilerplates.

#### Usage example

```shell
$ faber rm my-boilerplate
```

#### Arguments

`faber rm <alias>`

- `<alias>` (_mandatory_) – The reference to the boilerplate to remove from your list.

## Mentions

This documentation was inspired by the [Plop](https://plopjs.com/) documentation.

_Plop_ is an amazing micro-framework with a similar goal as _Faber_, however, while _Plop_ is great for generating code inside your project using [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) as template engine, _Faber_ is fully focused on starting new projects, with no defined template engine, so you might be able to run the boilerplate project on its own for testing its features with your own.

_P.S. You can use both together in your projects to make your life easier._ 😉
